New page: placeholder attr description (#28511)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/html/attributes/placeholder/index.md

---
title: "HTML attribute: placeholder"
slug: Web/HTML/Attributes/placeholder
page-type: html-attribute
browser-compat:
  - html.elements.input.placeholder
  - html.elements.textarea.placeholder
---

{{HTMLSidebar}}

> The **`placeholder`** attribute specifies a short hint ,a word or phrase, that describes the expected value of an input. A hint could be a sample value or a short description containing the format of the expected value. The attribute, if specified, must have a value that contains no U+000A LINE FEED (LF) or U+000D CARRIAGE RETURN (CR) characters.

Reviewer: Maybe something like this:

```
The **`placeholder`** defines the text displayed in a form control when the control has no value. The placeholder text provides a brief hint to the user as to the expected type of data that should be entered into the control.

The placeholder should be a word or short phrase that hints at the expected data type, not an explanation or prompt. The placeholder should not be used instead of a {{HTMLElement("label")}}. As the placeholder is not visible if the value of the form control is not null, using `placeholder` instead of a `<label>` for a prompt harms usability and accessibility.
```

and then moving the whitespace information to a note. the parts about it only appearing when there is no value and disappearing when there is, and not using it to replace a label are more important than the LF or CR. The LF/CR note should not be a copy paste from the spec. instead, explain what happens (the placeholder value gets clipped)

The **`placeholder`** attribute is supported by the following input types: `{{HTMLElement("input/text", "text")}}`, `{{HTMLElement("input/search", "search")}}`, `{{HTMLElement("input/url", "url")}}`, `{{HTMLElement("input/tel", "tel")}}`, `{{HTMLElement("input/email", "email")}}`, and `{{HTMLElement("input/password", "password")}}`. It is also supported by the `{{HTMLElement("textarea")}}` element.

> > **Note:** For a longer hint, or other advisory text, the title attribute is more appropriate.

Reviewer: title attributes are not accessible and not a replacement.They should be using a label.

>  These mechanisms are very similar but subtly different: the hint given by the control's [label](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/#the-label-element) is shown at all times; the short hint given in the [placeholder](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/#attr-input-placeholder) attribute is shown before the user enters a value; and the hint in the [title](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/#attr-title) attribute is shown when the user requests further help.

> **Note:** Placeholders should only be used to show an example of the type of data that should be entered into a form; they don't replace a proper label.

## Example

### HTML

```html
<form>
  <div class="group">
    <label>Without placeholder:</label>
    <input type="text" />
  </div>
  <div class="group">
    <label>With placeholder:</label>
    <input type="text" placeholder="Enter your name" />
  </div>
</form>
```

### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample('Placeholder')}}

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [HTML attribute: title](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/title)

> - [CSS selector `::placeholder`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/::placeholder)

Author: Can I know why is this preferred?

  - html.elements.textarea.placeholder
---

{{HTMLSidebar}}

The **`placeholder`** defines the text displayed in a form control when the control has no value. The placeholder text provides a brief hint to the user as to the expected type of data that should be entered into the control.

The placeholder should be a word or short phrase that hints at the expected data type, not an explanation or prompt. The placeholder should not be used instead of a {{HTMLElement("label")}}. As the placeholder is not visible if the value of the form control is not null, using `placeholder` instead of a `<label>` for a prompt harms usability and accessibility.

The **`placeholder`** attribute is supported by the following input types: `{{HTMLElement("input/text", "text")}}`, `{{HTMLElement("input/search", "search")}}`, `{{HTMLElement("input/url", "url")}}`, `{{HTMLElement("input/tel", "tel")}}`, `{{HTMLElement("input/email", "email")}}`, and `{{HTMLElement("input/password", "password")}}`. It is also supported by the `{{HTMLElement("textarea")}}` element. The [example](#example) below shows the `placeholder` attribute in use to explain the expected format of an input field.

> > **Note:** The attribute, if specified, must have a value that contains no line feeds (LF) or carriage returns (CR) characters. If the value contains either LF or CR characters, the value will be clipped.
> 
> > **Note:** For a longer hint, or other advisory text, the {{HTMLElement("small")}} should be used.
> 
> > **Warning:** Placeholders should only be used to show an example of the type of data that should be entered into a form; they don't replace a proper label as they are not semantically useful. This harms many users who are either older or people with disabilities. For example, older users may not understand that the placeholder text disappears when they start typing, and users with cognitive impairments may not understand that the placeholder text provides a hint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `placeholder` attribute can't include any line feeds (LF) or carriage returns (CR). If either is included in the value, the placeholder text will be clipped.

## Accessibility concerns

Placeholders should only be used to show an example of the type of data that should be entered into a form; never as a replacement for a `<label>` element; doing so harms accessibility and user experience. 

The `<label>` text is visually and programmatically associated with its corresponding form control. Screen readers don't announce placeholder content by default, but they do announce label content; it's the label that informs assistive technology users what data should be entered in the control. Labels also improve user experience for users of pointing devices: When a user clicks, touches, or taps a `<label>`, focus is moved to the the label's associated form control.

Placeholders can not be relied upon as a replacement for a label even for those not relying on assistive technology.  Placeholder text is displayed at lower color contrast than the default form control text. This is by design, as you don't want users to be confused by what is placeholder text versus what is a filled-in form field. However, this lack of contrast can cause issues for low-vision users. Additionally, placeholder text disappears from form fields when users start entering text. If the placeholder text contains instructional information or examples that disappear, it can be confusing to users with cognitive issues and can make the form inaccessible if the placeholder contained the label.
```

Reviewer: To include the small text comment, we should link to the resource explaining how to write effective longer hints and advisory text
